ExifTool by Phil Harvey (phil at owl.phy.queensu.ca)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ExifTool is a customizable set of Perl modules plus an application script
for reading and writing meta information in image, audio and video files,
including the maker note information of many digital cameras by various
manufacturers such as Canon, Casio, FujiFilm, HP, JVC/Victor, Kodak, Leaf,
Minolta/Konica-Minolta, Nikon, Olympus/Epson, Panasonic/Leica, Pentax/Asahi,
Ricoh, Sanyo, Sigma/Foveon and Sony.

Below is a list of file types and meta information formats currently
supported by ExifTool (r = read, w = write, c = create):

                File Types                 |    Meta Information
  ---------------------------------------  |  --------------------
  ACR   r       JP2   r/w     PPT   r      |  EXIF           r/w/c
  AI    r       JPEG  r/w     PS    r/w    |  GPS            r/w/c
  AIFF  r       K25   r       PSD   r/w    |  IPTC           r/w/c
  APE   r       M4A   r       QTIF  r      |  XMP            r/w/c
  ARW   r       MEF   r/w     RA    r      |  MakerNotes     r/w/c
  ASF   r       MIE   r/w/c   RAF   r      |  Photoshop IRB  r/w/c
  AVI   r       MIFF  r       RAM   r      |  ICC Profile    r/w/c
  BMP   r       MNG   r/w     RAW   r/w    |  MIE            r/w/c
  BTF   r       MOS   r/w     RIFF  r      |  JFIF           r/w/c
  CR2   r/w     MOV   r       RM    r      |  Ducky APP12    r/w/c
  CRW   r/w     MP3   r       SR2   r      |  CIFF           r/w
  CS1   r/w     MP4   r       SRF   r      |  AFCP           r/w
  DCM   r       MPC   r       SWF   r      |  DICOM          r
  DCR   r       MPG   r       THM   r/w    |  Flash          r
  DNG   r/w     MRW   r/w     TIFF  r/w    |  FlashPix       r
  DOC   r       NEF   r/w     VRD   r/w/c  |  GeoTIFF        r
  EPS   r/w     OGG   r       WAV   r      |  PrintIM        r
  ERF   r/w     ORF   r/w     WDP   r/w    |  ID3            r
  FLAC  r       PBM   r/w     WMA   r      |  Kodak Meta     r
  FLV   r       PDF   r       WMV   r      |  Ricoh RMETA    r
  FPX   r       PEF   r/w     X3F   r      |  Picture Info   r
  GIF   r/w     PGM   r/w     XLS   r      |  Adobe APP14    r
  HTML  r       PICT  r       XMP   r/w/c  |  APE            r
  ICC   r/w/c   PNG   r/w                  |  Vorbis         r
  JNG   r/w     PPM   r/w                  |  (and more)

See html/index.html for more details about ExifTool features.

ExifTool can be downloaded from

   Main server URL:  http://owl.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/
   Alternate URL:    http://130.15.24.87/~phil/exiftool/

Note:  Please do not make links to the alternate URL above, because this
server is not permanent.

RUNNING

The exiftool script can be run right away without the need to install
Image::ExifTool.  For example, from within the exiftool directory you can
extract the information from one of the included test files by typing:

   ./exiftool t/images/ExifTool.jpg

If you move the exiftool script to a different directory, you must also
either move the contents of the lib directory or install the Image::ExifTool
package so the script can find the necessary libraries.

Note:  If you are using the Windows cmd shell, you may need to rename
'exiftool' to 'exiftool.pl' to run it directly from the command line.
Alternatively, you can run exiftool with the command 'perl exiftool'.

IF YOU ARE STILL CONFUSED

The exiftool script is a command line application.  You run it by typing
commands in a terminal window.  The first step is to determine the name of
the directory where you downloaded the ExifTool distribution package.
Assuming, for example, you downloaded it to a folder called "Desktop" in
your home directory, then you would type the following commands in a
terminal window to extract and run ExifTool:

   cd ~/Desktop
   tar -xzf Image-ExifTool-#.##.tar.gz
   cd Image-ExifTool-#.##
   ./exiftool t/images/ExifTool.jpg

Note: You must replace "#.##" in the above commands with the actual version
number of ExifTool that you downloaded.  These commands extract meta
information from one of the test images.  To use one of your images instead,
enter the full path name of your file in place of "t/images/ExifTool.jpg".

INSTALLATION

You can install the Image::ExifTool package to make it available for use by
other Perl scripts by typing the following:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

Notes:
   i) You need root access for the last step above.

   ii) Some Perl installations (like the standard OSX installation) may not
   contain the necessary files to complete the first step above.  But no
   worries:  You can install ExifTool manually by moving 'exiftool' and the
   'lib' directory to any directory in your current PATH (ie. /usr/bin).

   iii) In Windows, the "nmake" utility may be downloaded from Microsoft at
   http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q132084 -- Type
   "nmake" instead of "make" in the commands above if using this utility.

DEPENDENCIES

Requires Perl version 5.004 or later.  No other special libraries are
required, however Compress::Zlib is used if available to read/write
compressed information in PNG, PDF, DCM, DNG, MIE and SWF images, and
Digest::MD5 is used if available to read encrypted information in PDF files.

COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright 2003-2006, Phil Harvey

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
same terms as Perl itself.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Read the following files included with the ExifTool distribution for more
information:

html/index.html             - Main ExifTool documentation
html/history.html           - ExifTool revision history
html/ExifTool.html          - ExifTool API documentation
html/TagNames/index.html    - ExifTool tag name documentation
lib/Image/ExifTool/README   - ExifTool modules documentation

and if you have installed Image::ExifTool, you can also consult perldoc or
the man pages:

   perldoc exiftool
   perldoc Image::ExifTool
   perldoc Image::ExifTool::TagNames

   man exiftool
   man Image::ExifTool
   man Image::ExifTool::TagNames

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
